>> Sarah Drasner: A common situation that
you might have is you have two components
and they're pretty similar.
They have a bunch of
different things going on.
So you kind of come to a crossroads and
you say all right,
well I could split this into two
components and have them live separately.
But then if the functionality is
similar enough you have to go update
the functionality of both of them,
kind of defeating the premises of dry.
The other option is we have all of
these things available to us with prop,
so we could create one component and
change them with a lot of props.
But once we get to a lot of props,
you get into an issue where in order to
read that component, the person has to
understand a lot of context before
they get going and able to use it.
So Enter mixins.
This is where mixins are really exciting.
I really like this quote Michael Feathers,
object oriented programming makes code
understandable by encapsulating moving
parts.w Functional programming makes code
understandable by minimizing moving parts.
And so I think when you're using
mixins properly, they are really,
really great for
a functional programming mod Model.
We are encapsulating one piece of
functionality so we are creating something
that's smaller that we can re-use
in a couple of different places.
Like let's say two components
were pretty different but
they share one common functionality
that you know is always gonna be tied.
That's a really good instance where
you might wanna create a mixin and
create a small function that's pure
that you ca use for both instances.
So if written correctly, they are pure
they don't modify or change this
outside of the function scope, so
you always reliably get the same
execution value with the same
input on multiple execution.
That's basically like our really big
core tenant of functional
programming is keeping things pure.
So that can be really really powerful.
I'm gonna show you a tiny example of
this because otherwise it will be
a little bit too much to take in at once.
So we looked at that model before.
The model just toggles.
Again, this is like a really,
really simple example so it's not probably
the use case I would it for but
just for the purposes of understanding.
If we have a model we saw this
model earlier where it's toggling
the state of showing or not showing.
Let's say we also have a tool tip and
that's also showing or not showing but
they look different and
there's a lot of different pieces to them.
Tool tips have slightly different content,
they have different layout,
same with motors.
But that core functionality is similar.
What we could do is we could extract
just that functionality and
say something like const toggle and
then data return is showing false,
that's just the toggle that we have.
And then the modal and the tool tip become
smaller, and we say mix ins toggle,
mix ins toggle and we're basically able
to consume that small function into
these components and reuse them, so
that can be really, really nice.
So if we have a modal, Show child,
put Click Here Please and
then I have Tool tip and a modal and
they work slightly differently as well and
the functionality
because we're clicking on different things
and we have different slots for each one.
So actually let's show you the code.
So in here, let's go to CodePen.
>> Sarah Drasner: In here we have
this const toggle like we mentioned.
Here is our Modal,
here is our Tooltip, and
here is our Vue instance
with our components.
We have appModal and
appTooltip and a divider.
And here's our modal, we have a bunch of
things in here like hiding the child, and
showing the child, and toggling.
And we have another kind of markup for
the tooltip.
They don't share the same markup.
Some examples of uses for
mix ins getting the dimensions
of the view port and component.
That might be something you do on
a few different components and
they don't really share any
other thing about them.
Maybe gather mouse move events.
That might be something that you execute
on differently on different components but
you need to still gather the same events.
You don't want to redo
all of that code and
they're not really
the same component at all.
I showed that example with SVG earlier
where I made charts and created the axes.
And something like that is something that
I've used in a few different components.
Because I don't want to keep rewriting
these base elements of charts or
something like that.
There's also a really great repo by,
I'm not gonna try to say his last name,
Paul [LAUGH].
And there's a bunch of
different Vue mixins in there.
One caveat I will say is that they
use CoffeeScript, so if you're
with CoffeeScript, it might be different
from the way that you're used to working.
There is a concept of merging with
mixins because you're actually
bringing it into another component
that has different kinds of values.
So by default mixins will
be applies first, and
the components will be second, so
that we can override it as necessary.
So the important piece of this is
that the component has the last say.
You're gonna Vue assumes that you probably
need the thing that the components is
dong, so
if you accidentally have two things that
are happening that are similar, and
I'll an example of this as well.
So if I have something
like these two mounted,
you know actually another thing to
mention is that mixin's have all of
the life cycle methods available to
them just like the components do.
So we have mounted and we have
a console.log('hello from mixin') and
a mounted in the instance or
the component and
we say console.log('hello
from vue instance').
So if both of these things are in
the mounted they both execute and
we get hello from mixin,
hello from vue instance.
Both of those things will happen,
but let's say we have something like
a method where they're
both called say hello.
Like I have a method that I've called say
hello and mounted, I execute that method.
Then I do the same thing,
this one is hello from mixin and
this one is the Vue instance or
component What we're gonna
get in the output in the console is both
of those things firing, because we called,
just like in the other one,
both of those things are gonna execute.
But one of them is gonna be
overridden because it's going to say,
wait you have another
thing called say hello.
The component has the last say,
the component is going to win and
we're going to say hello from
Vue instance Global mixins.
Warning signs.
[LAUGH] Lots of warning signs.
Global mixins are different from filters
or components that we could register, or
something like that, where we create
it and we can use it as we want.
Global mixins are literally applied
to every, single component.
So I would say almost
never ever use these.
One example that I've had that
people have found them useful,
if you deplug in development and
you need access to all of the components,
but even then I would say
really use this with caution.
The use is extremely limited and
should be considered with great caution.
We're, so if we say something like,
this view.mixin, so that's how we
would register a global thing in
that main.js file right before our
Vue instance, we would say Vue.mixin.
That console log, but now appear for
every single component.
For this instance,
you have a noisy console.
But there's other things that could
happen that could be really bad.
If you want,
I'll take a look at a real-life example.
We could go to the Mickson's
example in the repo.
So you go
>> Sarah Drasner: So, here we've got
the modal and we've got the tool tip
here and then we've got merging.
So I'm gonna open up the console and we've
got that hello from merging component,
hello from merging component for both.
Let me go show you what that is.
So in this one.
>> Sarah Drasner: In our source we have or
mixins, we've got one called toggle
that we had used in these components for
tooltip and mortal.
And then we also have
this Merging Component.
We sayHello for
Merging Component and this.sayHello.
We're also calling this component
called hi that has that sayHello.
So, the Hello for
a Merging Component wins.
I had mentioned that the Vue mixin would
be registered in the main dot js file.
So remember this main .js file
we have our Vue instance.
We can uncomment this and
bring in this new global mixin.
And now we have [LAUGH]
Hello from global mixin.
And this is actually fired three times and
then two times because it's firing for
all of the mixins in
all of the components.
So no [LAUGH] use with caution,
red flags everywhere.
Mixings are I think are really useful.
I would really use global
mixins very carefully.